README.md, before:

# Image Repository

## Setup
In order to run this project, clone this repo

```
$ git clone git@github.com:amanbrar1999/image-repository.git
$ cd image-repository
```

Requirements can be installed using the requirements.txt file. You may want to set up a virtual environment to do so

```
$ python3 -m venv venv
$ . venv/bin/activate
(venv) $ pip3 install -r requirements.txt
```

Now, you can initialize the database and run the app with:

```
$ export FLASK_APP=image_repo
$ export FLASK_ENV=development
$ flask init-db
$ flask run
```

## Functionality

This application currently supports the following functionality:

- Adding image to database
- Removing image from database
- Viewing images in database

## Endpoints

`GET /` healthcheck endpoint to ensure the application is running with a simple get request

`POST /add` adding image paths to the database. data must be of the form `{"paths": ["path/to/image"]}`, and the image must be stored under `image_repo/static`

`POST /delete` removing image paths from the database. data must be of the form `{"paths": ["path/to/image"]}`

`GET /view` view all image paths in the database. Individual images can be queried with query parameter `image`

`GET /view/images` view html page of all images in the database. Individual images can be queried with query parameter `image`

## Testing

Unit and integration tests have been included in the `tests/` directory. 
Tests can be ran using the following command in the root directory:

```
$ PYTHONPATH=. pytest
```

## Future Improvements for Productionizing

As of now, file paths are stored in the database and the actual images are stored locally. A possible solution to make this better for a production environment is to store images in a cloud storage system such as AWS S3, and store the S3 file paths within the database instead of the current local filepaths.

Commit message:

added curl command to readme

README.md, after:

# Image Repository

## Setup
In order to run this project, clone this repo

```
$ git clone git@github.com:amanbrar1999/image-repository.git
$ cd image-repository
```

Requirements can be installed using the requirements.txt file. You may want to set up a virtual environment to do so

```
$ python3 -m venv venv
$ . venv/bin/activate
(venv) $ pip3 install -r requirements.txt
```

Now, you can initialize the database and run the app with:

```
$ export FLASK_APP=image_repo
$ export FLASK_ENV=development
$ flask init-db
$ flask run
```

## Functionality

This application currently supports the following functionality:

- Adding image to database
- Removing image from database
- Viewing images in database

## Endpoints

`GET /` healthcheck endpoint to ensure the application is running with a simple get request

`POST /add` adding image paths to the database. data must be of the form `{"paths": ["path/to/image"]}`, and the image must be stored under `image_repo/static`

`POST /delete` removing image paths from the database. data must be of the form `{"paths": ["path/to/image"]}`

`GET /view` view all image paths in the database. Individual images can be queried with query parameter `image`

`GET /view/images` view html page of all images in the database. Individual images can be queried with query parameter `image`

## Testing

Unit and integration tests have been included in the `tests/` directory. 
Tests can be ran using the following command in the root directory:

```
$ PYTHONPATH=. pytest
```

Manual testing can be performed through command line using curl. An example request can be made as follows:

```
$ curl -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{"paths": ["bulbasaur.jpg"]}' http://localhost:5000/delete
```

## Future Improvements for Productionizing

As of now, file paths are stored in the database and the actual images are stored locally. A possible solution to make this better for a production environment is to store images in a cloud storage system such as AWS S3, and store the S3 file paths within the database instead of the current local filepaths.
